>> Announcer: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, JULY 5:
THE CLASHES IN ISRAEL SPREAD--
WE'LL HAVE THE LATEST FROM
JERUSALEM;
FROM COLORADO,
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS
FROM THE ASPEN IDEAS FESTIVAL;
AND THE PHOTOGRAPHER WHO
CAPTURED THE START
OF THE GAY RIGHTS MOVEMENT.
NEXT, ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>> FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>> Larson: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
HARI SREENIVASAN IS ON
A REPORTING TRIP
AND WILL APPEAR LATER
IN THE BROADCAST.
WE BEGIN IN UKRAINE, WHERE
THE GOVERNMENT SAYS ITS FORCES
HAVE SCORED A MAJOR VICTORY,
ROUTING PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS
WHO LATER FLED THE CITY
OF SLOVYANSK.
THE REBELS HAD SEIZED
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDINGS
AND POLICE STATIONS THERE
THREE MONTHS AGO.
EARLIER THIS WEEK, UKRAINE'S NEW
PRESIDENT, PETRO POROSHENKO,
RENOUNCED A CEASEFIRE
WITH THE REBELS.
LATER, HARI SREENIVASAN'S
INTERVIEW
WITH THE FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR
TO RUSSIA
ABOUT THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE.
FROM ISRAEL TONIGHT, PALESTINIAN
MILITANTS IN GAZA FIRED
MORE ROCKETS TODAY INTO ISRAEL,
AND ISRAELI WARPLANES RESPONDED
BY HITTING TARGETS IN GAZA.
THIS AS THE FINDINGS OF A
PRELIMINARY AUTOPSY
OF A PALESTINIAN TEENAGER KILLED
THIS WEEK CAME TO LIGHT.
FOR MORE, WE ARE JOINED NOW FROM
JERUSALEM VIA SKYPE
BY JOSEF FEDERMAN OF THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS.
JOE, THANKS FOR JOINING US.
I WOKE UP THIS MORNING TO THE
FIRST NEWS
OF THIS AUTOPSY THAT CAME OUT
INVOLVING THE PALESTINIAN YOUTH
KILLED THERE THIS WEEK.
WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT THAT?
>> YEAH, WE RECEIVED THE INITIAL
RESULTS OF THE AUTOPSY,
AND THEY'RE PRETTY DISTURBING.
THE SIGNS ARE THAT THIS BOY
WAS BURNED ALIVE.
THEY FOUND SIGNS HE ACTUALLY
INHALED SMOKE BEFORE HE DIED.
>> Larson: AND WHERE IS THE
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION
INTO HIS DEATH?
DO WE KNOW WHO DID THIS YET?
>> WE DON'T. THE ASSUMPTION, AT
LEAST ON THE PALESTINIAN SIDE,
IS THAT ISRAELI EXTREMISTS DID
THIS IN A REVENGE ATTACK
FOLLOWING THE DEATHS OF THREE
ISRAELI TEENAGERS
FOUND EARLIER THIS WEEK.
ISRAEL HAS PUT, YOU KNOW,
MAXIMUM EFFORT INTO THE SEARCH
FOR THE KILLERS, BUT THEY STILL
DON'T KNOW WHO THEY ARE
AND THEY STILL DON'T HAVE
A FIRM MOTIVE.
THEY SAY THEY ARE EXPLORING
ALL POSSIBILITIES,
INCLUDING NATIONALISTIC MOTIVES,
BUT ALSO THE POSSIBILITY
OF CRIMINAL ACTIVITY
OR SOME SORT OF FAMILY FEUD.
IT'S REALLY TOO SOON TO SAY.
>> Larson: JOE, I KNOW
PERSONALLY YOU'VE BEEN REPORTING
OUT OF THE REGION FOR MORE
THAN A DECADE NOW.
WHAT DO THE EVENTS OF THE LAST
COUPLE OF WEEKS
SEEM TO YOU LIKE?
>> YES, I FEEL LIKE WE'VE
ENTERED
SOME UNCHARTERED WATERS HERE.
I'VE SEEN THINGS THAT I'VE NEVER
SEEN BEFORE IN A DECADE
OF COVERING THIS STORY.
IT BEGAN WITH THE KIDNAPPINGS
OF THREE ISRAELI TEENAGERS
THREE WEEKS AGO.
THAT'S WHAT SET OFF THIS CURRENT
ROUND OF TENSIONS
WHERE YOU HAVE THREE CIVILIANS,
UNDERAGE TEENAGERS BEING
TARGETED, ABDUCTED AND KILLED.
THAT WAS SORT OF THE LEVEL
OF CRUELTY,
THE TYPE OF ATTACK,
THAT HASN’T BEEN SEEN BEFORE.
THE REACTION IN ISRAEL ALSO WAS
SOMETHING I HAVEN'T SEEN
WHERE YOU HAVE HUNDREDS OUTSIDE
OF MY OFFICE THE FOLLOWING DAY,
WHEN THE BOYS WERE BEING BURIED,
HUNDREDS OF RIGHT-WING YOUNG
ISRAELIS MARCH
THROUGH DOWNTOWN JERUSALEM,
CALLING FOR REVENGE,
SCREAMING "DEATH TO ARABS"
AND SO FORTH.
IT WAS A CHILLING SIGHT TO SEE.
AND THEN, A FEW HOURS LATER,
THIS BOY IS ABDUCTED
IN EAST JERUSALEM.
A PALESTINIAN BOY IS ABDUCTED,
AND HIS CHARRED BODY IS FOUND
IN THE FOREST JUST
A FEW HOURS LATER.
NOW, WE'RE NOT SURE WHO DID IT,
BUT THE TIMING, THE MOTIVE,
THE ATMOSPHERE AT LEAST POINTS
IN THAT DIRECTION
AS A STRONG POSSIBILITY.
>> Larson: YOU ALSO HAVE TOLD ME
EARLIER
IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSATION
THAT YOU SAW THE MOTHER
OF ONE OF THE ISRAELIS KILLED
SPEAK OUT.
>> YES, SHE ISSUED A STATEMENT.
THE FAMILY ISSUED A STATEMENT--
AND THIS IS SORT OF A GLIMMER
OF HOPE, I GUESS--
SAYING AFTER THE PALESTINIAN BOY
WAS FOUND BURNED TO DEATH,
SHE PUT OUT A STATEMENT SAYING,
"MURDER IS WRONG.
IT DOESN'T MATTER IF YOU ARE
JEWISH,
ARAB, MURDER IS MURDER."
AND HOPEFULLY A VOICE LIKE THAT
CAN SORT OF CALM TENSIONS DOWN
AS WE MOVE FORWARD.
>> Larson: JOSEF FEDERMAN FROM
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS,
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Larson: IN AFGHANISTAN,
200 TANKER TRUCKS CARRYING FUEL
FOR NATO FORCES WERE SET ON FIRE
IN AN ATTACK
NEAR THE CAPITAL CITY OF KABUL.
TALIBAN MILITANTS CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY.
FROM IRAQ TONIGHT, WORD OF THE
FIRST PUBLIC APPEARANCE
BY THE MAN BEHIND THE RECENT
OFFENSIVE BY ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS
WHO HAVE CAPTURED TOWNS IN
NORTHERN IRAQ AND WESTERN IRAQ,
AND DECLARED A CALIPHATE,
OR ISLAMIC STATE.
FOR MORE ABOUT THAT
AND THE COUNTEROFFENSIVE
BY IRAQI GOVERNMENT FORCES,
WE ARE JOINED NOW VIA SKYPE FROM
BAGHDAD BY MATTHEW BRADLEY
OF THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL."
MATT, THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WHAT'S THE LATEST AT THIS HOUR?
>> THE LATEST NEWS THAT'S COME
OUT IN THE LAST COUPLE OF HOURS
IS THE APPEARANCE OF
THE ISLAMIC STATE LEADER,
ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI, WHO MADE
HIS FIRST VIDEO APPEARANCE
JUST TODAY, AND JUST IN THE LAST
COUPLE OF HOURS.
AND THIS WAS A VIDEO THAT WAS
CIRCULATED ON SOCIAL MEDIA
AND SUPPOSEDLY SHOWS ABU BAKR
AL-BAGHDADI GIVING
WHAT IS CALLED A UKBA--
OR SORT OF LIKE A SERMON--
TO A PRAYER GROUP, A MEETING OF
MUSLIMS IN A MOSQUE IN MOSUL,
A NORTHERN CITY IN IRAQ
YESTERDAY.
SO, THIS IS A VERY BIG DEAL
BECAUSE ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI,
THERE'S ONLY TWO KNOWN PHOTOS
OF HIM AVAILABLE.
HE'S A VERY NOTORIOUSLY ELUSIVE
CHARACTER.
AND NOW WE'RE SEEING A LENGTHY
VIDEO SEQUENCE OF HIM
FOR THE FIRST TIME,
AND IT'S A VERY, VERY
INTERESTING DEVELOPMENT.
WE'RE NOW ACTUALLY ABLE TO PUT
A FACE TO A NAME
OF A JIHADI LEADER WHO HAS
REALLY ECLIPSED AL QAEDA
AND THE LEADER OF AL QAEDA IN
THE LAST COUPLE OF MONTHS
IN TERMS OF POWER AND IN TERMS
OF POPULARITY.
>> Larson: YOU KNOW,
YOU'RE IN BAGHDAD.
WHAT’S THE MOOD ON THE STREETS
RIGHT NOW IN BAGHDAD?
HOW CLOSE ARE SORT OF THESE
FORCES TO BAGHDAD NOW?
>> THESE FORCES ARE FORMING
SOMETHING OF A U-SHAPE,
SORT OF A HORSESHOE SHAPE
AROUND BAGHDAD.
THEY'RE QUITE CLOSE, ABOUT 100
MILES TO THE NORTH IN THE CITY
OF TIKRIT.
THEY'RE IN THE WEST,
THE CLOSEST CITY BEING FALLUJAH,
WHICH THEY'VE HELD SINCE
JANUARY.
AND THEY'RE QUITE CLOSE
TO BAGHDAD IN THE SOUTH,
AND THERE HAVE BEEN CLASHES
THERE IN THE TOWN OF ABU GHRAIB.
IF YOU REMEMBER,
ABU GHRAIB IS THE SITE
OF THAT HUGE PENITENTIARY
WHERE THE U.S. FORCES
WERE SEEN TORTURING PRISONERS
AND HARASSING PRISONERS.
THAT PRISON HAS BEEN EVACUATED
A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO
JUST BECAUSE OF HOW CLOSE
THE MILITANTS WERE COMING.
SO, THEY ARE REALLY PRETTY CLOSE
TO THE CITY.
THE THING IS THAT BAGHDAD IS NOT
LIKE THE OTHER AREAS OF IRAQ
THAT THE ISLAMIC STATE-- WHICH
WAS FORMERLY KNOWN AT ISIS--
WAS ABLE TO TAKE BECAUSE BAGHDAD
IS QUITE
A LARGE SHIITE POPULATION.
AND IT'S NOT REALLY POSSIBLE
FOR THIS MILITIA
TO MOVE IN QUITE AS EASILY INTO
BAGHDAD AS THEY DID IN MOSUL
AND SOME OF THE CITIES
TO THE NORTH.
>> Larson: MATT, WE UNDERSTAND
THERE HAVE BEEN SOME...
SOME SUCCESSES BY GOVERNMENT
FORCES.
WHAT'S THE REALITY,
AT LEAST THE WAY IT FEELS
THERE IN THE STREETS?
YOU KNOW, WILL GOVERNMENT FORCES
BE ABLE TO MOVE INTO
ANY OF THESE MAJOR METROPOLITAN
AREAS THEY HAVE LOST?
>> WELL, IT DOESN'T LOOK GOOD.
THE MILITARY HAS BEEN TRYING
TO TAKE TIKRIT,
WHICH IS THE CITY THAT'S NEAR
THE BIRTHTOWN OF SADDAM HUSSEIN.
AND THEY'VE BEEN DOING THAT
FOR ABOUT A WEEK.
THEY'VE BEEN TRYING TO PUSH
INTO THIS CITY.
THERE HAVE BEEN LANDMINES THAT
HAVE BEEN REALLY FRUSTRATING
THEIR APPROACH.
SO, IT DOESN'T LOOK GOOD
FOR THE IRAQI MILITARY.
THEY DON'T SEEM TO BE ABLE
TO TAKE THE UPPER HAND
AGAINST A MILITANT GROUP THAT
SHOULD BE MUCH LESS PREPARED,
MUCH WORSE TRAINED
AND MUCH WORSE ARMED
THAN THIS U.S.-TRAINED AND
U.S.-ARMED MILITARY.
>> Larson: MATT BRADLEY
OF THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL,"
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Larson: LATE TODAY, REUTERS
QUOTED THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT
AS CALLING THE VIDEO
"A FABRICATION."
THE GOVERNMENT CLAIMED ITS
TROOPS WOUNDED
THE ISLAMIC LEADER
IN A BOMBING ATTACK
AND THAT HE'S BEING TREATED
IN SYRIA.
HURRICANE ARTHUR
HAS COME AND GONE,
BUT NOT BEFORE FLOODING SOME
COASTAL AREAS IN MASSACHUSETTS.
NEW BEDFORD, ABOUT 60 MILES
SOUTH OF BOSTON,
RECEIVED AS MUCH
AS EIGHT INCHES OF RAIN.
PORTIONS OF CAPE COD
WERE ALSO FLOODED.
FROM HOUSTON,
REPORTS OF A NEAR COLLISION
BETWEEN TWO PASSENGER PLANES
ON THURSDAY.
THE F.A.A. SAYS A SINGAPORE
AIRLINE 777 JUMBO JET TAKING OFF
FLEW DANGEROUSLY CLOSE TO A
DELTA AIRLINES JET LANDING
AT GEORGE BUSH INTERCONTINENTAL
AIRPORT.
>> Larson:
THE F.A.A. SAYS THE PILOT
OF THE SINGAPORE AIRLINES PLANE,
AFTER HIS INITIAL CLIMB,
DID NOT LEVEL OFF AS REQUIRED.
THE F.A.A. SAYS IT'S TAKING
ADDITIONAL STEPS
TO ENSURE THAT ALL PILOTS
ARE AWARE OF THE RULES.
CALIFORNIA'S LEADING CHICKEN
PRODUCER, FOSTER FARMS,
IS RECALLING 170 DIFFERENT
CHICKEN PRODUCTS.
THIS AFTER THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT LINKED CHICKEN
PRODUCED BY THAT COMPANY
TO A SALMONELLA OUTBREAK
THAT HAS SICKENED SOME
600 PEOPLE IN 27 STATES
AND PUERTO RICO.
THE COMPANY DISPUTES THAT ITS
CHICKEN LED TO THE ILLNESSES.
IT SAYS IT HAS ISSUED THE RECALL
IN "THE FULLEST INTEREST
OF FOOD SAFETY."
ALSO IN CALIFORNIA, THE HIGHWAY
PATROL SAYS IT IS INVESTIGATING
A GRAPHIC VIDEO THAT SHOWS
AN OFFICER STRADDLING
AND REPEATEDLY PUNCHING A WOMAN
ON THE SIDE OF THE FREEWAY.
THE VIDEO WAS CAPTURED BY A
PASSING MOTORIST ON TUESDAY.
HE LATER DISTRIBUTED IT
TO THE MEDIA.
A HIGHWAY PATROL OFFICIAL SAID
YESTERDAY THAT THE OFFICER
INVOLVED HAS BEEN PLACED ON
ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE.
HE SAID THE OFFICER WAS TRYING
TO RESTRAIN THE WOMAN
WHO HAD BEEN WALKING
ON THE FREEWAY.
AS WE SAID,
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS BEEN
AT THE ASPEN IDEAS FESTIVAL.
HE INTERVIEWED THE FORMER
AMERICAN AMBASSADOR TO RUSSIA,
MICHAEL McFAUL.
THEIR CONVERSATION FOCUSED ON
THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE
AND ITS IMPACT ON U.S./RUSSIAN
RELATIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR SOMEONE
WATCHING RIGHT NOW,
WHAT’S HAPPENING ON THE GROUND
THERE?
WE ARE SEEING THESE PUSHES FROM
THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT
TO TRY TO QUELL THE UNREST.
WE SAW A CEASEFIRE,
AND NOW WE ARE SEEING
THE END OF THAT CEASEFIRE.
WHAT IS PRESIDENT POROSHENKO
TRYING TO DO?
>> WELL, THE FIRST THING THAT'S
HAPPENING THERE IS A GIANT
AND NEEDLESS TRAGEDY.
AND I WANT TO START WITH THAT
BECAUSE WE SOMETIMES QUICKLY GET
IN, WE TALK ABOUT THE CONFLICT
AND KIND OF RATING THE CONFLICT.
THIS IS ONE WITH THAT DIDN'T
NEED TO HAPPEN.
ETHNIC UKRAINIANS AND ETHNIC
RUSSIANS HAVE LIVED SIDE BY SIDE
FOR A LONG TIME.
THIS WAS ALL FABRICATED BY BAD
LEADERSHIP AND BAD DECISIONS.
AND NOW YOU HAVE HUNDREDS
OF PEOPLE DYING IN A PLACE
THAT HAD BEEN PEACEFUL
FOR A LONG TIME.
AND THAT'S FRUSTRATING TO ME
AS SOMEBODY WHO WORKED ON
THE EFFORT TO TRY TO MAKE
RELATIONS WITH UKRAINE
AND RUSSIA BETTER
WITH THE UNITED STATES.
BUT WHERE WE'RE AT NOW,
POROSHENKO ALSO IS FRUSTRATED.
HE HAD AN OVERTURE,
A CEASEFIRE PLAN.
HE THEN CALLED FOR A CEASEFIRE,
AND HE DIDN'T GET THE RESPONSE
HE WANTED.
MAYBE EXTERNALLY THE RESPONSE
WAS BETTER THAN THE ONE
FROM THE REBELS OR TERRORISTS
INSIDE UKRAINE,
AND SO NOW HE'S DECIDED TO GO
AFTER THEM
AND WE'LL SEE WHERE IT ENDS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT
RUSSIA'S SUPPORT
FOR THESE REBELS OR TERRORISTS?
THE STEADY STREAM OF PEOPLE THAT
ARE COMING FROM RUSSIA
INTO THESE PARTS OF THE UKRAINE
AND OBVIOUSLY MILITARY SUPPORT
IN THE WAY OF AMMUNITION
OR SOME OF THE WEAPONS
THAT ARE COMING IN?
>> YOU DON'T HAVE THIS
INSURGENCY
WITHOUT RUSSIAN SUPPORT.
IT DOESN'T MEAN
THEY CONTROL THEM,
DOESN'T MEAN PUTIN IS
ON THE PHONE EVERY DAY
TALKING TO THE COMMANDERS.
IT'S NOT THAT KIND OF CONTROL.
BUT PARTICULARLY THE OPEN BORDER
AND THE PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR THEM,
AS WELL AS THE MILITARY
ASSISTANCE,
THE HARDWARE, THOSE THREE
COMPONENTS ARE THERE.
AND IF PUTIN WANTED TO SHUT IT
DOWN,
HE COULD BY DISRUPTING THOSE
THREE COMPONENTS.
>> Sreenivasan:
ARE WE MISUNDERSTANDING
PRESIDENT PUTIN’S MOTIVATIONS?
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW THERE'S THIS
IDEA THAT CRIMEA
WAS THE FIRST AND THEN THERE ARE
GOING TO BE PARTS OF UKRAINE
AND HE WANTS TO KIND OF
RECAPTURE THE GLORY DAYS
OF THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT'S TRUE.
I DO NOT THINK THAT THIS IS
THE SECOND PHASE
OF A GRAND STRATEGY.
I DO BELIEVE HE WENT INTO CRIMEA
BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT FELL
IN KIEV.
HE WAS PISSED OFF.
IT WAS AN EMOTIONAL,
TACTICAL MOVE,
AND HE TOOK ADVANTAGE OF A
WEAKNESS IN KIEV TO DO THAT.
AND THEN HE EXPERIMENTED IN
EASTERN UKRAINE, RIGHT?
SO HE DIDN'T TRY TO STOP IT.
HE WANTED TO SEE WHERE IT WENT.
HE GAVE THEM SOME PUBLIC SUPPORT
FOR A TIME.
BUT NOW I SEE HIM AS DECIDING
THIS IS NOT GOING TO LEAD
TO POPULAR UPRISING IN EASTERN
UKRAINE TO JOIN RUSSIA,
AND SO HE'S LOOKING FOR A WAY
TO DISTANCE HIMSELF FROM THOSE
THAT ARE FIGHTING ON THE GROUND.
AND, BY THE WAY, YOU SEE IT
WITH THEIR OWN STATEMENTS
FROM TIME TO TIME OF FRUSTRATION
THAT PUTIN IS NOT DOING
MORE FOR THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHAT ARE THE
OPTIONS FOR THE UNITED STATES
WHEN IT COMES TO THE UKRAINE
AND WHEN IT COMES TO RUSSIA?
>> THE BIGGEST, OBVIOUS POINT,
YOU KNOW, THE FORK IN THE ROAD
FOR UKRAINE IS TO END
THE VIOLENCE.
IF POROSHENKO OR SOME
CONFIGURATION
OF INTERNATIONAL LEADERS HELPED
END THE VIOLENCE,
THEN UKRAINE HAS A CHANCE
AS A STATE, AS AN ECONOMY,
AS A DEMOCRACY.
AND THAT SHOULD THE FIRST
AND FOREMOST OBJECTIVE
IS TO HELP STABILIZE THE ECONOMY
AND TO MAKE THAT DEMOCRACY
FUNCTION.
THAT'S THE WAY YOU DETER FURTHER
AGGRESSION AND FURTHER PROBLEMS
IN UKRAINE LOOKING FORWARD.
BUT A PRECONDITION TO MAKE THAT
HAPPEN IS TO END THE VIOLENCE
IN EASTERN UKRAINE.
>> Sreenivasan: DOES THE STANCE
THE AMERICA TAKES ON UKRAINE
HAVE RIPPLE EFFECTS IN OTHER
PARTS OF FOREIGN POLICY
BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES
AND RUSSIA?
>> YES, I THINK IT DOES,
PARTICULARLY IN THE WAY
THAT PUTIN NOW VIEWS US AS THIS
SINISTER AGENT TRYING TO DETER
AND CONTAIN AND CONFRONT RUSSIA.
THAT'S THE WAY
HE THINKS ABOUT IT.
HE SAYS THIS PUBLICLY,
VERY VOCALLY.
AND THEREFORE IF YOU NEED TRUST
FOR COOPERATION WITH RUSSIA,
THEN YOU ARE NOT GOING
TO HAVE IT.
I THINK PERSONALLY TRUST IS
OVERRATED IN DIPLOMACY,
IN GENERAL.
I THINK PEOPLE TALK ABOUT IT
A LOT
AND IN FACT I DIDN'T SEE
A LOT OF IT
WHEN I WAS IN THE GOVERNMENT.
BUT MOST CERTAINLY IF THAT IS
A REQUIREMENT FOR COOPERATION
ON ISSUE X, Y OR Z,
WE'RE NOT GOING TO HAVE THAT
AS PART OF THE EQUATION.
BUT THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS
WE CAN DO
THAT DOESN'T REQUIRE TRUST,
THAT JUST REQUIRES OUR INTERESTS
TO BE IN ALIGNMENT.
>> Sreenivasan: AND SO HOW DOES
THE UNITED STATES MAKE THE CASE
FOR ALIGNING OUR INTERESTS WHEN
IT COMES TO UKRAINE?
>> WELL, I WOULD JUST GO BACK
TO THE ARGUMENT WE MADE
WHEN I WAS STILL IN GOVERNMENT,
WHICH WAS BEFORE THE VIOLENCE,
WHERE WE SAID TO PUTIN AND TO
THE REST OF HIS GOVERNMENT,
LOOK, WE DO NOT SEE THIS IN
ZERO-SUM SOME TERMS, RIGHT?
THIS IS NOT A GAME OF, IS
UKRAINE GOING TO BE IN THE WEST
OR THE EAST?
WE THINK THAT A PROSPEROUS
UKRAINE IS GOOD FOR RUSSIA
AND GOOD FOR EUROPE AND GOOD FOR
THE UNITED STATES, BY THE WAY.
AND I, IN MY NEGOTIATIONS WHEN
WE WOULD TALK ABOUT THIS
WHEN I WAS STILL AN AMBASSADOR,
I WOULD SAY WE HAVE TRADED
ARRANGEMENTS
WITH ALL KINDS OF COUNTRIES, AND
AS LONG AS THEY ARE CONSISTENT
WITH EACH OTHER, THEY CAN BE
MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL.
UNFORTUNATELY, THAT'S NOT
THE WAY PUTIN SAW
THAT PARTICULAR SET OF EVENTS.
>> Sreenivasan: MICHAEL McFAUL,
THANKS SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Larson:
FROM SAN FRANCISCO TONIGHT,
A REPORT ABOUT PHOTOGRAPHER
ANTHONY FRIEDKIN
AND A NEW EXHIBIT OF HIS WORK
THAT WAS MORE THAN 40 YEARS
IN THE MAKING.
IN IT, HE CAPTURES LIFE AMONG
HOMOSEXUALS IN THE LATE 1960s
AND EARLY 1970s,
AND HE DOCUMENTS THE BIRTH
OF THE GAY RIGHTS MOVEMENT.
SCOTT SCHAEFER OF KQED NEWSROOM
REPORTS.
>> DON!
(LAUGHTER)
>> WHAT A DELIGHT!
>> Reporter: IN WEST HOLLYWOOD,
TWO OLD FRIENDS,
DON KILHEFNER AND ANTHONY
FRIEDKIN, REUNITE.
>> I EVEN HAVE THE CAMERA
THAT I SHOT ALL THE PHOTOS WITH.
THIS WAS THE CAMERA, THIS BABY
WAS THE ONE THAT DID IT ALL.
>> Reporter: THE CAMERA THAT SET
THEM ON A JOURNEY TOGETHER
DECADES AGO, ALL GATHERED THIS
NIGHT IN HONOR OF KILHEFNER
AND OTHER PIONEERING GAY RIGHTS
ACTIVISTS.
(APPLAUSE)
PLACED AT THE CENTER OF THE
MURAL ARE DON KILHEFNER
WITH MORRIS KIGHT, FOUNDERS OF
THE GAY LIBERATIONS FRONT
IN LOS ANGELES,
A PHOTOGRAPH TAKEN BY FRIEDKIN
AT THE DAWN
OF THE GAY LIBERATION MOVEMENT.
IT WAS 1969.
A SOCIETAL SHIFT
WAS TAKING PLACE.
>> IT WAS REALLY
ABOUT SAYING NO,
WE WON'T ACCEPT THIS ANYMORE.
>> Reporter:
IN CITIES ACROSS AMERICA
GAY PEOPLE WERE FIGHTING BACK,
SOMETHING THAT WASN'T LOST ON
19-YEAR-OLD ANTHONY FRIEDKIN.
>> THERE'S SOMETHING THAT IS
REFERRED TO
AS THE CONCERNED PHOTOGRAPHER.
AND THE IDEA IS THAT YOU
CELEBRATE HUMANITY
FOR ITS GOOD THINGS, BUT YOU
ALSO IDENTIFY THE THINGS
THAT NEED TO BE REEVALUATED
AND CHANGED.
>> Reporter: WHAT FRIEDKIN SAW
NEEDING CHANGE WAS ATTITUDES
TOWARD HOMOSEXUALITY.
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS HORRIBLE THE
WAY GAY PEOPLE WERE TREATED
BY OUR SOCIETY.
IT MADE ME ANGRY.
>> Reporter: FRIEDKIN GREW UP
IN LOS ANGELES.
>> HIS FATHER WAS A SCREEN
WRITER,
HIS MOTHER WAS A DANCER-
CHOREOGRAPHER.
THEY HAD TONS OF FRIENDS
WHO WERE GAY.
HE HAD BEEN AROUND GAY PEOPLE
ALL OF HIS LIFE,
SO IT DIDN'T SEEM STRANGE
TO HIM.
>> THEY EXPRESSED THEMSELVES
IN A FREE WAY WITH LOVE
AND AFFECTION AND HUMOR, SO, YOU
KNOW,
I WANTED TO TRY TO RECORD THAT,
YOU KNOW, JUST OUT OF THE
DIGNITY THAT I THOUGHT
THEY DESERVED THAT MANY PEOPLE
WOULDN'T GIVE THEM.
>> Reporter: SO FRIEDKIN SOUGHT
OUT KIGHT AND KILHEFNER,
WHO HAD JUST FOUNDED THE GAY
COMMUNITY SERVICES CENTER
IN LOS ANGELES.
THEY GAVE HIM ACCESS TO A WORLD
THAT WAS JUST EMERGING
FROM THE SHADOWS.
>> HE COMES ACROSS AS REAL.
AND AT THAT TIME AS A YOUNG MAN,
HE WAS ON FIRE.
HE WAS ON FIRE WITH CREATIVITY.
HE SAW THINGS THAT OTHER PEOPLE
DIDN'T SEE.
>> Reporter: FRIEDKIN DEDICATED
TWO YEARS,
CAPTURING AND PRINTING THE MOST
POWERFUL IMAGES POSSIBLE.
>> IT WAS NOT UNUSUAL
AT THAT TIME FOR CARS
WITH FOUR OR FIVE YOUNG PEOPLE
IN IT WITH BASEBALL BATS
TO STOP A GAY PERSON ON THE
STREET AND BEAT THEM SENSELESS.
SO, IT WAS DANGEROUS EVEN
ASSOCIATING WITH GAY PEOPLE
AT THAT TIME.
WHAT TONY DID WAS, HE VENTURED
INTO THIS DANGEROUS SPACE
AND HE TOOK HIS PHOTOGRAPHS.
>> Reporter: BUT THE PHOTOGRAPHS
WERE AHEAD OF THEIR TIME,
AND MOST GALLERIES WOULDN'T SHOW
THEM UNTIL NOW.
THE CULMINATION OF FRIEDKIN'S
VISION TOOK 45 YEARS,
BUT IT'S NOW BEING REALIZED AT
THE DE YOUNG MUSEUM
IN SAN FRANCISCO.
THE EXHIBIT TITLED
"THE GAY ESSAY"
IS UNDER THE DIRECTION OF CHIEF
PHOTOGRAPHY CURATOR JULIAN COX.
>> JULIAN, THIS LOOKS FANTASTIC.
OH, MY GOD! OH, WOW!
THIS GUY CAN PLAY,
LIKE, A HALFBACK.
THERE'S SO MUCH OF
"THE GAY ESSAY" IN HIS SPIRIT.
>> ANTHONY'S WHOLE APPROACH TO
WHAT HE DOES IS VERY IMMERSIVE.
HE REALLY BELIEVED
THAT TO MAKE GOOD WORK,
YOU HAD TO BE DEEPLY CONNECTED
TO YOUR SUBJECT.
>> I REALLY BELIEVED
THAT THE PRINT
IS SUCH AN IMPORTANT PART
THE ART FORM OF PHOTOGRAPHY.
JIM WAS SUCH AN EXTRAORDINARY
YOUNG MAN, YOU KNOW.
HE WAS CHICANO, AND HE LIVED IN
A HARDCORE, GANG-INFESTED AREA.
AND TO BE GAY IN THAT KIND OF A
COMMUNITY AND TO COME OUT OPENLY
THAT WAY AND WALK AROUND
THE NEIGHBORHOOD...
>> Reporter: WHAT DO YOU SEE IN
THOSE EYES?
>> THERE'S A CURIOSITY IN HIS
EYES ABOUT WHAT HIS FUTURE
MIGHT BE LIKE, WHAT THE PATH
THAT HE HAS CHOSEN TO GO DOWN.
>> Reporter: AND THIS IS TROY
PERRY HERE, RIGHT?
>> YES.
>> Reporter: HE FOUNDED THE
METROPOLITAN COMMUNITY CHURCH,
RIGHT?
>> CORRECT.
THIS WAS A VERY DARK,
TRAGIC DAY.
THIS CHURCH WAS BURNT DOWN.
LOOK IN HIS EYES, HE'S DEFIANT.
HE'S SAYING, YOU KNOW,
"I'M HERE TO TAKE YOU ON."
>> IT WAS THAT NEW GAY
LIBERATION SPIRIT.
WE WERE DEMANDING IT.
YOU TAKE YOUR FREEDOM, AND IT
WAS THAT AUDACIOUS ATTITUDE
THAT WAS THE CLIMATE OF THE
TIMES, AND TONY CAUGHT THAT.
>> Reporter: IMAGES ALSO NOW
CAPTURED FOR ALL-TIME IN A BOOK
JUST PUBLISHED BY YALE
UNIVERSITY PRESS.
>> OH, THAT IS GREAT.
OH, MY GOD, LOOK AT THOSE
TWO CHARACTERS.
HE HUMANIZES.
WHEN I WAS LOOKING AGAIN AT THE
PHOTOGRAPH OF MORRIS KIGHT
AND MYSELF,
A TEAR CAME TO MY EYE.
THOSE WERE VERY DIFFICULT DAYS
FOR GAY PEOPLE.
THE AMOUNT OF OPPRESSION THAT WE
FACED EVERYWHERE WAS TREMENDOUS.
>> THIS CAMERA HAS SO MANY OF
THOSE PRIVATE, SPECIAL MOMENTS
THAT IT WAS A WITNESS TO.
IF ANYTHING HAPPENED
TO THIS CAMERA, GOD,
I DON'T KNOW WHAT I'D DO.
I REALLY DON'T KNOW WHAT I'D DO.
>> Reporter: STILL A PURIST
SHOOTING BLACK AND WHITE FILM
WITH HIS LEICA, STILL COMMITTED
TO CAPTURING
THAT DECISIVE MOMENT,
AND STILL PUSHING THE LIMITS.
>> I THINK THE RISK THAT WE TAKE
AS ARTISTS IS CRITICAL
TO OUR ABILITY TO DO INTERESTING
WORK,
AND HOW MUCH RISK
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE.
>> Announcer: THIS IS PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND, SATURDAY.
>> Larson: NOW, A VISIT TO ONE
OF THE WORLD'S ONLY
UNDERWATER LABS, WHERE SIX
SCIENTISTS RECENTLY SPENT
A MONTH OFF KEY LARGO IN FLORIDA
STUDYING THE EFFECTS
OF CLIMATE CHANGE
ON CORRAL REEFS.
HARI SREENIVASAN SPOKE TO THE
MISSION LEADER, FABIEN COUSTEAU,
GRANDSON OF JACQUES COUSTEAU.
>> WELCOME TO THE BOTTOM
OF THE SEA.
WE’RE AT 63 FEET IN DEPTH.
WHY ARE WE DOING THIS?
VERY SIMPLY BECAUSE IT GIVES US
THE LUXURY OF TIME.
WE'RE ABLE TO GO OUT INTO THIS
FINAL FRONTIER
ON OUR LIVING PLANET TO EXPLORE
UNADULTERATED AND UNLIMITED
BY TIME, WHICH IS NOT SOMETHING
ONE CAN SAY WHEN DIVING DOWN
FROM A BOAT.
>> Sreenivasan: TELL US A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT WHAT IT IS
THAT YOU'RE DOING WHEN YOU'RE
OUT THERE
SIX TO EIGHT HOURS A DAY.
>> WELL, WE HAVE A WET LAB,
WHICH YOU HAVE IN THAT PHOTO
RIGHT THERE, AND AS WELL AS A
DRY LAB INSIDE THE HABITAT.
WHAT WE'RE LOOKING AT ARE ISSUES
WITH CLIMATE CHANGE,
OR MORE SPECIFICALLY RELATED TO
CLIMATE CHANGE
AND ACIDIFICATION LEVELS AS WELL
AS POLLUTION.
SO, WE'RE LOOKING
AT THE BASELINE
OF THESE UNDERWATER CITIES THAT
BASICALLY DICTATES EVERYTHING
THAT LIVES IN AND AROUND THESE
CORAL CITIES.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE
ANYTHING COOL THAT YOU'VE SEEN
SINCE WHILE YOU'RE DOWN THERE?
>> IT'S JUST AMAZING.
I'VE SEEN SO MUCH NEW BEHAVIOR
THAT I'VE NEVER SEEN BEFORE:
FISH SLEEPING IN SPONGES;
A GOLIATH GROUPER ATTACKING
A BARRACUDA--
NEVER SEEN THAT BEFORE.
I DON'T THINK ANYONE HAS EVER
CAUGHT IT ON FILM BEFORE.
I MEAN, IT’S JUST...
IT'S SCIENCE FICTION.
IT'S JUST REALLY AMAZING
DOWN HERE,
AND THAT'S THE POINT OF BEING
DOWN HERE.
MY GRANDFATHER USED TO SAY,
"IN ORDER TO FILM A FISH,
YOU MUST BECOME A FISH."
SO, HERE WE ARE AS CLOSE AS WE
CAN GET TO BECOMING FISH.
>> Larson: SOME LATE NEWS BEFORE
WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
THE U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT SAYS
IT IS PROFOUNDLY TROUBLED
BY REPORTS THAT ISRAELI
POLICE BEAT
AN AMERICAN HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT.
THE 15-YEAR-OLD IS FROM FLORIDA
AND IS THE COUSIN
OF THE PALESTINIAN TEEN WHO WAS
APPARENTLY BURNED ALIVE
IN WHAT MAY HAVE BEEN A REVENGE
ATTACK FOR THE MURDER
OF THREE ISRAELI TEENAGERS.
AND THE JULY 4 HOLIDAY WEEKEND
HAS BROUGHT A WAVE OF VIOLENCE
TO CHICAGO.
POLICE THERE SAY AT LEAST 36
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN SHOT.
ONE OF THE SHOOTINGS WAS FATAL.
JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR
AND ONLINE.
I'M JOHN LARSON,
THANKS FOR JOINING US.